## Introduction

The BugSplat.xcframework enables posting crash reports from iOS, macOS, and Mac Catalyst applications to BugSplat. Visit http://www.bugsplat.com for more information and to sign up for an account. 

## 1. Requirements

* BugSplat for iOS supports iOS 13 and later.
* BugSplat for macOS supports macOS 10.13 and later.

## 2. Integration

BugSplat supports multiple methods for installing the xcfamework in a project.

### Manual Setup

To use this xcframework in your project manually you may:  

# FIXME

1. Download the latest release from https://github.com/BugSplat-Git/ which is provided as a zip file
2. Unzip the archive.
3. In Xcode, select your app target, then go to the General tab, scroll down to Framework, Libraries, and Embedded Content, then click the "+" and navigate to locate the unzipped BugSplat.xcframework. Once added, select Embed & Sign.

## 3. Usage

#### Configuration

BugSplat requires a few Xcode configuration steps in order integrate the xcframework with your BugSplat account

- Add the following case sensitive key to your app's Info.plist replacing DATABASE_NAME with your customer specific BugSplat database name.

    ```
    <key>BugSplatDatabase</key>
    <string>DATABASE_NAME</string>
    ```
    
    NOTE: For macOS apps, you must enable Outgoing network connections (client) in the Signing & Capabilities of the Target.
    
    
#### Symbol Upload

- You must upload an archive containing your app's binary and symbols to the BugSplat server in order to symbolicate crash reports. There are scripts to help with this.  
    - Create a ~/.bugsplat.conf file to store your BugSplat credentials

        ```
        BUGSPLAT_USER="<username>"
        BUGSPLAT_PASS="<password>"
        ```    
    - Download BugSplat's cross-platform tool `symbol-upload-macos`. See https://docs.bugsplat.com/education/faq/how-to-upload-symbol-files-with-symbol-upload for documentation and a link to download a prebuilt binary, or from github.
    
      NOTE: Due to tightened macOS security features, this `symbol-upload-macos` may need to be manually approved before it will run on your Mac.
      Additionally, please ensure Build Setting ENABLE_USER_SCRIPT_SANDBOXING is set to NO or delete this Build Setting to accept the default NO. Otherwise the `symbol-upload-macos` will likely fail to upload the symbols due to a file system restriction to package up the dSYM files to upload.

    - Several options exist to integrate `symbol-upload-macos` into the app build process.
      - Create an Xcode build-phase script to upload dSYM files after every build. See example script Symbol_Upload_Examples/Build-Phase-symbol-upload.sh
      - Create an Xcode Archive post-action script in the target's Build Scheme in order to to upload dSYM files after the app is archived and ready for submission to TestFlight or App Store. See example script Symbol_Upload_Examples/Archive-post-action-upload.sh
      - Manually upload an xcarchive generated by Xcode to your BugSplat portal.
      
      NOTE: For build-phase script to create dSYM files, change Build Settings DEBUG_INFORMATION_FORMAT from DWARF to DWARF with dSYM File.
      NOTE: See inline notes within each script for modifications to Xcode Build Settings required for each script to work.


#### Initialization

- Several iOS and macOS test app examples are included within the `Example_Apps` folder, to show how simple and quickly BugSplat can be integrated into an app, and ready to submit crash reports.



#### Crash Reporter UI Customization
1. Custom banner image
- BugSplat fo macOS provides the ability to configure a custom image to be displayed in the crash reporter UI for branding purposes.  The image view dimensions are 440x110 and will scale down proportionately. There are 2 ways developers can provide an image:
1. Set the image property directly on BugSplat 
2. Provide an image named `bugsplat-logo` in the main app bundle or asset catalog

2. User details
- Set `askUserDetails` to `NO` in order to prevent the name and email fields from displaying in the crash reporter UI. Defaults to `YES`.



3. Auto submit
- By default, BugSplat will auto submit crash reports for iOS and will prompt the end user to submit a crash report for macOS. This default can be changed using a BugSplat property autoSubmitCrashReport. Set `autoSubmitCrashReport` to `YES` in order to send crash reports to the server automatically without presenting the crash reporter dialogue.

4. Persist user details
- Set `persistUserDetails` to `YES` to save and restore the user's name and email when presenting the crash reporter dialogue. Defaults to `NO`.


5. Expiration time
- Set `expirationTimeInterval` to a desired value (in seconds) whereby if the difference in time between when the crash occurred and next launch is greater than the set expiration time, auto send the report without presenting the crash reporter dialogue. Defaults to `-1`, which represents no expiration.

#### Attachments
1. Bugsplat supports uploading attachments with crash reports. There's a delegate method provided by `BugSplatDelegate` that can be implemented to provide attachments to be uploaded.

#### Bitcode
Bitcode was introduced by Apple to allow apps sent to the App Store to be recompiled by Apple itself and apply the latest optimization. Bitcode has now been officially deprecated by Apple and should be removed or disabled. If Bitcode is enabled, the symbols generated for your app in the store will be different than the ones from your own build system. We recommend that you disable bitcode in order for BugSplat to reliably symbolicate crash reports. Disabling bitcode significantly simplifies symbols management and currently doesn't have any known downsides for iOS apps.

#### Localization
For macOS, the BugSplat crash dialogue can be localized and supports 8 languages out of the box.

1. English
2. Finnish
3. French
4. German
5. Italian
6. Japanese
7. Norwegian
8. Swedish

Additional languages may be supported by adding the language bundle and strings file to `BugSplat.xcframework/macos-arm64_x86_64/BugSplatMac.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/HockeySDK.framework/Resources/`


## 4. Sample Applications

Example_Apps includes several iOS and macOS BugSplat Test apps. Integrating BugSpat only requires the xcframework, and a few lines of code.

# FIXME
1. Clone the [BugsplatMac repo](https://github.com/BugSplat-Git/).

1. Open an example Xcode project from Example_Apps. For iOS, set the destination to be your iOS device. After running from Xcode, stop the process and relaunch from iOS device directly.

2. Once the app launches, click the "crash" button when prompted.

3. Relaunch the app on the iOS device. At this point a crash report should be submitted to bugsplat.com

4. Visit BugSplat's [Crashes](https://app.bugsplat.com/v2/crashes) page. When prompted for credentials enter user "fred@bugsplat.com" and password "Flintstone". The crash you posted from BugsplatTester should be at the top of the list of crashes.

6. Click the link in the "Crash Id" column to view more details about your crash.
